GPS - Chùa Linh Ứng
Problem Alignment
● Visitors lack engaging, multilingual guidance tailored to their preferred language.
● Tourists often have questions during visits but lack instant access to
knowledgeable support.

High Level Approach
● Build a wep app for mobile devices, compatible across major browsers and
operating systems (OS).
● Enable users to tap on Points of Interest (POIs) for multilingual text/audio
guidance.
● Integrate GPS to display the visitor’s live location on the site map.
● Embed an AI-powered chatbot to answer visitor questions in natural language.

Narrative
● A tourist arrives at Linh Ứng pagoda, scans a QR code at the entrance, and is
prompted to pay for access.
● Upon payment (either online or offline), the app opens and shows a live map with
nearby POIs.
● As the tourist explores, they tap on POIs to hear audio guides and read
descriptions in their preferred language.
● If they have questions, they ask the built-in chatbot, which responds instantly with
relevant info.

Goals
● Provide an automatic and immersive narration experience for visitors at Linh Ứng.
● Integrate GPS technology to automatically play content corresponding to the
user's current location.
● Support multiple languages, including Vietnamese, making it friendly for
international tourists and independent travelers (no tour guide needed).
● Built-in RAG chatbot system to answer visitor questions in natural language.

Solution Alignment

Key Features
1. A navigation app that integrates GPS technology to detect the user's current
location, highlighting POIs in the proximity.
2. Route recommendations for users, consisting of a number of POIs (customizable)
and directions to go from one to another.
3. A data pipeline that automatically translates text descriptions of all POIs into 15+
different languages, and transcribes them into audios. These are shown to users
as they tap on the POIs on the map.
4. A database that stores all data generated from the above feature, along with
other POI-related information, such as POI’s coordinates, range of proximity and
thumbnail images.
5. An admin dashboard that allows staff to create sessions and modify data.
6. A monitoring dashboard to observe system’s health and usage information in realtime.
Future considerations:
1. Cache most recent questions and answers for faster performance
2. Monitoring: real-time logs track user activities

Key Flows
● Operational flow

● Payment processing flow

Key Logic
1. POI information retrieval
The whole application database, including all information about every POIs, is loaded
onto frontend side once the user finishes the authorization process. The frontend NEVER
sends any request to fetch data afterwards.
2. Multilingual Content Delivery
All content (text and audio) is pre-translated into 15+ languages. User selects their
preferred language using a small circle icon on the top right corner. Language
preference dynamically controls displayed content and audio playback.

Launch Plan
TARGET DATE

MILESTONE

DESCRIPTION

2025-05-16

Pilot

Preliminary testing onsite

Appendix
Changelog
DATE

Open Questions

FAQs

DESCRIPTION

